Updating the contract discount structure (#14196)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/growth/sales/contract-rules.md

> We don't offer discounts to customers paying monthly, irrespective of commitment.

> Although our standard monthly [pricing](/pricing) has volume discounts built in, it's common practice when negotiating software contracts for the customer (and their procurement team) to ask for a discount. We follow the [4 discount levers framework](https://transparentsalesleadership.com), being transparent about what drives our discounting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although our standard monthly [pricing](/pricing) has volume discounts built in, it's common practice when negotiating software contracts for the customer (and their procurement team) to ask for a discount. We follow the [4 discount levers framework](http://transparentsalesleader.com/), being transparent about what drives our discounting:
```

### The 4 Discount Levers & Why They Matter to Our Business

> Our general principle is that discounts are earned, not given. Each lever represents real value exchange:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our general principle is that discounts are earned, not given. Each lever represents real benefit to both parties:
```

3. **Length of Commitment:** Contract duration - *Longer commitments reduce our customer acquisition costs. We spend less on renewals and can invest more in product development*
4. **Ability to Forecast:** Mutual agreement to timing - *When both parties commit to specific dates (contract close, renewal timing), it helps us plan resources and helps you secure budget*

Every discount reflects a value exchange that provides a sound basis for our pricing. We don't offer unilateral concessions - better pricing comes from moving on one or more of these levers. This framework gives both sides a clear frame of reference for what drives pricing decisions.

### How Our Discounts Work

In our consumption-based pricing model, the first way to reduce spend is to ensure that the customer is only sending data to us which is valuable to them. There is [different guidance here](/docs/billing/estimating-usage-costs) depending on which product(s) they are looking at.

Beyond optimization, we offer discounts based on four levers:

#### 1. Volume Discount (Based on Credit Purchase Amount)
- **$25k - $60k:** Base discount of 20%
- **$60k - $100k:** Base discount of 25%

> - **$100k - $250k:** Base discount of 30%

Reviewer 2: I'd assume we'd grandfather previous customers into this plan, but the impact on margins of this structure relative to large customers is something I'd be curious about...not sure it's worth the analytical effort though.

- **$250k - $500k:** Base discount of 35%
- **$500k - $1M:** Base discount of 40%
- **$1M+:** Contact us for custom pricing

#### 2. Length of commitment discount (additive)
- **1-year commitment:** No additional discount
- **2-year commitment:** +3% additional discount
- **3-year commitment:** +5% additional discount

#### 3. Timing of cash discount (additive)

> - **Net 30 (our standard):** No additional discount

Reviewer 3: Does the below mean you get 2.5% extra discount if you pay for 2 years up front and 5% if you pay 3 years up front and net 30 is just you paying for 1 year up front?

- **Paid upfront (multi-year deals):** +2.5% per year paid upfront

> - **Extended payment terms:** -2.5% for every 15 days beyond Net 30 (e.g., Net 60 = -5% from total discount)

Reviewer 3: I dislike this idea, mainly because I can see the scenario we agree to this, payment doesn't come through and then we try and remove discount, they send the original payment late and then it's a harder thing to fix all the invoices / re-issue etc etc.

> - **Extended payment terms:** -2.5% for every 15 days beyond Net 30 (e.g., Net 60 = -5% from total discount)

Reviewer: I've only seen this requested for accelerated payments within their payment window. for example add 2/10 within NET 30, 2 additional % off if paid within the first 10 days or something like that

From an earlier call we're we also trying to incentivize early renewal not only new contract? 

Isn't there already a penalty on "late fees"? - Unpaid amounts are subject to a finance charge of 1.5% per month on any outstanding balance.

> - **Extended payment terms:** -2.5% for every 15 days beyond Net 30 (e.g., Net 60 = -5% from total discount)

Reviewer 3: Yeah conditional credit is a good idea here.

> - **Paid upfront (multi-year deals):** +2.5% per year paid upfront

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Multi-year deals:** +2.5% per additional year paid upfront (i.e. +2.5% for 2 years, +5% for 3 years)
```

> > Note: We currently require upfront payment for all discounted annual contracts. Quarterly or split payment terms would reduce the overall discount available as they impact our cash flow and create administrative overhead.

Author: > we just reduce their up-front spend (and discount) to a level they are comfortable paying for in one go.

Works for me

#### 4. Ability to Forecast - Mutual Commitment to Timing (Additive)

> **For Monthly-to-Annual Conversions & Net New Agreements:** +5% additional discount

Reviewer 2: I like this conceptually. I worry about it practically:

- When offered once during a deal cycle, it will be expected every time, even if the customer breaks their timeline.
- A customer that has a compelling event will use that deadline to drive a discount, when they would've signed otherwise by that date.
- By its nature, it only creates value for PostHog on the initial "land" -- it's a one-time discount

> **For Monthly-to-Annual Conversions & Net New Agreements:** +5% additional discount

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**For Monthly-to-Annual Conversions & Net New Agreements:** +5% additional, non-recurring discount
```

> We don't offer discounts to customers paying monthly, irrespective of commitment.

Although our standard monthly [pricing](/pricing) has volume discounts built in, it's common practice when negotiating software contracts for the customer (and their procurement team) to ask for a discount. We follow the [4 discount levers framework](http://transparentsalesleader.com/), being transparent about what drives our discounting:

### The 4 Discount Levers & Why They Matter to Our Business

Our general principle is that discounts are earned, not given. Each lever represents real benefit to both parties:
1. **Volume:** The amount of credits purchased - *Larger deals have economies of scale. Our cost to serve a $500k customer is not 10x a $50k customer, so we can share those savings*
2. **Timing of Cash:** When we receive payment - *Money today is worth more than money tomorrow. Cash in hand lets us invest in product, hire engineers, and grow the business faster*

> 3. **Length of Commitment:** Contract duration - *Longer commitments reduce our customer acquisition costs. We spend less on renewals and can invest more in product development*

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. **Length of Commitment:** Contract duration - *Longer commitments reduce our customer acquisition costs. We spend less on people doing renewals and can invest more in product development*
```

4. **Ability to Forecast:** Mutual agreement to timing - *When both parties commit to specific dates (contract close, renewal timing), it helps us plan resources and helps you secure budget*

Every discount reflects a value exchange that provides a sound basis for our pricing. We don't offer unilateral concessions - better pricing comes from moving on one or more of these levers. This framework gives both sides a clear frame of reference for what drives pricing decisions.

> ### How Our Discounts Work

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### How our discounts work
```

#### 1. Volume Discount (Based on Credit Purchase Amount)
- **$25k - $60k:** Base discount of 20%
- **$60k - $100k:** Base discount of 25%
- **$100k - $250k:** Base discount of 30%
- **$250k - $500k:** Base discount of 35%
- **$500k - $1M:** Base discount of 40%
- **$1M+:** Contact us for custom pricing

#### 2. Length of Commitment Discount (Additive)
- **1-year commitment:** No additional discount
- **2-year commitment:** +3% additional discount
- **3-year commitment:** +5% additional discount

#### 3. Timing of Cash Discount (Additive)
- **Net 30 (our standard):** No additional discount
- **Paid upfront (multi-year deals):** +2.5% per year paid upfront
- **Extended payment terms:** -2.5% for every 15 days beyond Net 30 (e.g., Net 60 = -5% from total discount)

> Note: We require upfront payment for all discounted contracts. Quarterly or split payment terms are not available as they impact our cash flow and add administrative overhead. If the full projected amount exceeds budget, customers can purchase fewer credits upfront at the corresponding discount tier.

#### 4. Ability to Forecast - Mutual Commitment to Timing (Additive)

> **For Monthly-to-Annual Conversions & Net New Agreements:** +5% additional, non-recurring discount

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**For monthly-to-annual conversions & net new agreements:** +5% additional, non-recurring discount
```

- To include the 5% discount on the order form, we require written confirmation by the customer's designated signatory of the customer's intent to sign an order form by a specific, mutually agreed upon date
- This is about creating predictability for both sides, not artificial deadlines
- This is a one-time discount, which will be offered once during a monthly-to-annual conversion or net new agreement cycle, and is subject to the maximum total discount below

**For Renewals:** +5% additional discount
- Early renewal commitment (60+ days before expiration)

> You shouldn't offer discounts above the levels outlined here. If a customer is asking for more and you feel like a genuine exception is justified then speak to Dana, Simon or Charles about it as we may be able to offer additional credit for the first year of a contract. If you go outside of these rules without clearing it with one of us, the deal may not count toward your quota.

### Platform Adoption Bonus

**Multi-Product Credit:** Get 5% bonus credits when you use 3+ PostHog products at $1,000+/month each
- Applied at contract start for products included in the agreement

> **Expansion Credit:** Existing customers get 5% of remaining contract value when adopting each new product

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Expansion credit:** Existing customers get an extra 5% of remaining contract value when adopting each new product
```

- Product must exceed $1,000/month for 3 consecutive months
- Maximum 20% total (4 products)

*Why: Platform customers have better outcomes and lower churn. We invest in your success.*

### Discount Examples

> **Example 1: Simple Annual Deal**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Example 1: Simple annual deal**
```
